All right, so up until now, we've been using the regular expression engine to match patterns against
an entire string, right?
So for example, here's an entire multi-line string in this particular example.
And we've been creating regular expressions that match the whole entire string.
And as such, we're able to extract bits and pieces out of that string.
However, there is another way to use the regular expression engine to match repeating patterns within
a string.
And we're going to take a look at that now.
So let's create another class in our source folder.
I will right click on the source folder and go to new Java class.
And I don't know, maybe I will call this people matching.
All right and return.
All right.
So let's say that we have this class and we have another multi line string.
So private string people I'm going to call it equals, and I'm going to make another text block or multi-line
string with three quotes.
And uh, let's see.
I put my semicolon here and I'm going to make a new line here and I'm going to indent a little bit as
well.
So let's make a multi line string that represents a bunch of people, and we will type out these people
with their first name, last name and maybe one or two attributes about them separated by commas.
OK, so let's do something like Flintstone Fred, and let's come up with a date like a date of birth.
Let's say one one nineteen hundred and then a new line and c rubble Barney.
And we'll just do two to nineteen.
Oh, five and another one.
I don't even remember Fred Flintstone wife's name.
These are cartoon characters.
For those of you who did not grow up watching American cartoons, these are cartoon characters.
Let's see.
Wilma, I think, was Fred's wife's name Wilma.
Three three, 1910 and rubble Betty.
I think four four, 1915.
And maybe that's enough people for right now.
OK, so we've got this list of people, and let's say we just want to print each person out in a row,
OK, but we want to pass this string out per person.
OK, so first off, let's see what a regex might look like that can just grab the key fields of one
person.
OK, so let's let's try creating that rejects.
Let's see.
So we'll make a string.
Rag X equals so we've got a bunch of word characters followed by a comma, right?
So I'm going to say the word characters one or more, followed by a comma.
And then we've got a space here.
Maybe that space would be there.
Maybe it wouldn't.
So I will be careful here and I'll say, like, there's a let's say that there's there could be zero
or more spaces followed by one or more word characters again and a comma, followed by zero or more
spaces.
So now I'm on this space right here.
See, room or spaces.
Followed by now.
My date's here happen to only be one digit, one digit and then four digits.
But if I went up to like 10, 11 and 12, then you could certainly have two digits.
So let's say followed by one to two digits, followed by a forward slash, followed by one to two digits.
Followed by another forward slash, followed by four digits.
Followed by.
A new line character.
Right.
A new line character being, you know, the end of that line and moving on to the next line.
OK, so let's let's do that.
OK, now let's also use named Captur groups, though, to capture the bits that we actually care about.
Now I'm going to surround these parts, so we'll make a named capture group with a parenthesis opening
parentheses question mark.
Less than symbol.
And we'll name this field.
Last name?
Close that, and then we'll close this.
Be sure not to include the comma or the spaces.
We don't want any of that.
And then we'll do the same thing for the first name.
First name.
And then we'll wrap that in a closing.
Parentheses and do the same again for the date of birth, right?
Let's see.
Oops.
And I will just call it hobby, I guess.
And then we'll close that, let me make some space here.
All right.
And.
That should close that capture group.
OK, so there's our rejects, and then we'll go ahead and create our pattern and our match or like we
always do, so we'll create a pattern.
I'll just call it patty pattern.
Compile Rag X, all right, and then we'll make a matcher.
Matt equals Pat matcher, and now we'll give it the input of this string called people.
All right.
Oh, and excuse me, I totally forgot to put all of this inside of a method, didn't I?
Yeah.
So let's go ahead and create a public static void.
Main method SBM.
And then I guess I'm just going to grab all of this stuff and just cut it with the Command X or Control
X.
I'm also going to delete a couple of lines there, and then I will paste all of that inside of the method
like, so of course, now that it's inside of the method.
Visibility keywords are not valid, so I need to get rid of this private.
All right, there we go.
OK.
So up until now, we've been using the pattern in matcher with like something like an f block.
And then we see something like Matt that matches right and then we proceed to do things right.
That's how we've been using it up until now.
So let me now tell you something.
This matches here.
It tries to match the entire string to the regular expression.
OK.
But in this particular case, now we've created a Rag X that's only meant to match one line of this
total string multiple times, and we haven't done this before.
But Java's regular expression implementation does allow us to do this and to do so, though we won't
use match or matches any more.
And instead, we will use.
Matcher Dot find.
So what this method does is it takes our regular expression and tries to find any part of this string
that can match that expression.
OK.
And basically every time we call, find it will move on.
It will try to find the next match.
OK.
So if this regex matches each of these lines properly, then if we called find four times, it should
help us to zero in on each of these four lines.
OK, so let's see what that might look like.
OK, so we're calling matched find.
So that should zero in on this sub string right here.
OK.
And now from here, let's just print out the parts of of the of whatever it matches.
So we'll do it.
So you T..
And let's first print out the first name, so we'll do a match dot group.
First name.
And let's just.
And then we can do another so you t matched group last name.
And one more for the date of birth matched group Dobby.
All right.
So let's just run that.
And hopefully what we should get is Fred Flintstone one one nine.
Right?
Let's try that out and see.
Hey, there we go.
Yeah, so we got Fred Flintstone one one, 9500.
OK, so now let's see what happens.
Let me minimize this.
Now let's see what happens if we just do this again.
So I'm going to just copy all of that and
paste.
And in fact, let's just go ahead and do it four times three and four.
And now let's run that and see what we get.
I think we got something here.
It's a little messy to look at, but it looks like we got Fred Flintstone his date of birth than another
Barney rubble and his date of birth Wilma.
Her date of birth.
And Betty.
Yep.
So do you see what this does?
Every time we call find.
The regex engine will simply look for this.
Any text in this total string that matches this pattern?
And if it finds an instance that matches it, zeroes in on that.
And then each of the subsequent methods like Match Dot Group will match to just that one instance of
the substring that it found.
OK, so it's hard to explain, but I think you can see what's happening, right?
It's just going to find that pattern everywhere that it exists.
And each time we call Match, it's going to move on to the next pattern.
OK, now we can do a few other things with this.
I'm going to delete the last two, find there so we can do things.
In fact, I think I'll delete all but one.
All right, now, there's another version of Find Method here that takes a.
An index, essentially.
And what that index is, it's it's the starting index into the string.
So in other words, if we don't supply an input to the find method, it will start at the beginning
of the string to look for matches.
But we can tell it to skip over a certain number of characters, according to their index, and then
start from there.
OK, so let's say minor, I'm just going to put kind of a random number in here.
25.
OK.
Let's see what that does.
OK, so now at Prince Barney rubble, so what we just told it to do was to skip past the first 25 or
so characters, which I don't know exactly where that's going to land, but apparently it lands somewhere
in here.
And so then when it starts looking for a match, it won't match this first line because it's not starting
at the beginning, which this expression requires.
So then it has to move on to the next line, which is Barney rubble.
Now I bet if I make this sufficiently large, it'll skip past Barney rubble as well and go on to Wilma.
Let's see.
Yep.
It goes on to Wilma now.
So this is a nice way that you can skip past, you can skip past certain parts.
Now we can also get a little bit of extra information from a particular match.
So let's see.
I will print out if we do match dot.
Let's see what we've got here.
We can do.
We can get the starting index.
So that'll be.
What what character did that particular match start on?
OK.
And we can also get the ending index, so I'll.
And.
So if we run this.
OK, so the starting index is 51.
So if I were to count each character in here, which I'm not going to do, what we would find is that
Wilma is the 51st is Index 51 in this string.
In other words, if we started here zero one two three four five six and so on and so forth.
OK.
We also can get the start and end indexes for any captured groups.
So we've got one, two, three capture groups here.
So if we wanted to know what index does Wilma's first name start on, we could.
We could determine that pretty easily.
We can simply come up here and instead of printing out the the starting index for the entire string,
we could supply the name of the capture group.
So first name?
And so this will tell us the index of where Wilma's first name began, so let's run that and see and
actually we can do the same for the end index as well.
First name.
Let's run that.
OK, so Wilmoth first name begins on index 62, let's see, so that would be here.
So that is Index 62.
So you really have a lot of cool control over drilling in even in the event that you have a repeating
pattern throughout your input text.
OK.
And there's a few other methods in here.
Let's see if there's anything else I care to explain.
See, so we can get the start, we can get the end.
We can skip over things with find with a start.
We can.
Yeah, we can do replacements on on text that we find as well.
So that's kind of neat sometimes.
Or we can we can replace text, we can append things to parts that we find.
So a number of fairly nice utility methods to let us further manipulate the text that we find with these
regular expressions.
All right.
So that's about all I wanted to show.
I will point out, though, we may revisit Rig X a tiny bit more when we learn about control flow,
which is where we'll learn about loops.
Because as you can see here, when we call Nachiket, find multiple times, it gives us subsequent matches
that it finds.
That's a perfect place where we could use certain types of loops to just automatically loop through
and keep looping until there are no more matches, right?
So we'll probably take a brief look at that in the control flow module.
So now you are well-armed to be able to use regular expressions to extract data in a number of ways.
So with that, I will see you in the next one.